# Requests

All requests are made on a specific API resource:

    https://api.change.org/v1/[resource]

## Content Type

The body of POST and PUT requests, including any relevant parameters, can be
formatted as URL-encoded form data or Javascript Object Notation (JSON). The
format is specified in the `Content-Type` HTTP header of a request.

The API assumes that the body of a request is URL-encoded form data unless a
`Content-Type` header is specified. The following Content-Type headers are
accepted:

<table>
    <thead>
        <th>Format</th>
        <th>MIME Type</th>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>URL-encoded form data</td>
            <td><code>application/x-www-form-urlencoded</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>JSON</td>
            <td><code>application/json</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Request Validation

The parameters in each request must always be accompanied by four
additional parameters: an _API key_, an _endpoint_, a _timestamp_, and
a _request signature_. The request signature (detailed below) is generated by
using the API user's _secret token_ and, in some cases, a
_petition authorization key_ as well.

### API Key

See [_Authentication_](authentication.md) for more information about API keys.

### Endpoint

The `endpoint` -- the path to which the HTTP request is made, not including the
protocol or domain -- is included as a parameter because, once the request
signature is generated including this value, it ensures that the request was
sent to the intended enpoint. This mitigates against "man in the middle"
attacks.

Example:

    /v1/petitions/291810

### Timestamp

Every request must include a `timestamp` parameter with the current date and time
at UTC in ISO 8601 format. This mitigates against "replay"
attacks. Requests submitted more than 5 minutes before or after the date and
time indicated by the timestamp will be rejected.

Example:

    2012-06-08T00:46:16Z

### Request Signature

Every request must include a request signature parameter, appended to the
clear-text parameters as `rsig`. This ensures that the request originated from an
authorized API user and, if applicable, that the user is authorized to perform
the requested action.

Requests to modify or update a petition (e.g. signatures) require a petition
authorization key, whereas requests for information do not.

The request signature is a hexadecimal SHA-2 digest of the
`POST` body or `GET` query string appended with the user's secret token
and resource authorization key (if applicable) in succession.

## Request Parameters

The following table summarizes the paramters required for every request:

<table>
    <thead>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><code>api_key</code></td>
            <td><code>string</code></td>
            <td>The user’s API key.</td>
            <td><code>754a28309b20012f479b109add670a2c</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>endpoint</code></td>
            <td><code>string</code></td>
            <td>The path of the endpoint to which the API request is sent.</td>
            <td><code>/v1/petitions/48503</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>timestamp</code></td>
            <td><code>string</code> of ISO-8601 datetime</td>
            <td>
                The timestamp of the request:
                <code>YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ</code>
            </td>
            <td><code>2012-04-18T21:02:00Z</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>rsig</code></td>
            <td><code>string</code></td>
            <td>
                A 256-bit SHA-2 hexadecimal digest of the <code>POST</code>
                body or <code>GET</code> query string, with the secret token
                and, if applicable, the resource authorization key appended.
            </td>
            <td><code>/v1/petitions/48503</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><em>varies</em></td>
            <td><em>varies</em></td>
            <td>All other clear-text parameters for the specific request.</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### `GET` Request Construction Example

For example, when making a call to retrieve information about a petition, the
clear-text parameters would be

<table>
    <thead>
        <th>Parameter Name</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><code>api_key</code></td>
            <td><code>754a28309b20012f479b109add670a2c</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>petition_id</code></td>
            <td><code>4832</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>timestamp</code></td>
            <td><code>2012-04-18T21:02:00Z</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>endpoint</code></td>
            <td><code>/v1/petitions/4832</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>  

In `petition/:petition_id` requests, note that although `petition_id` is
included as part of the request URL and not the query string, it is still
considered a parameter.

The request signature is generated from the parameters above along with the
user's secret token. In this example, no petition authorization key is needed
since petition information requests are not restricted.

To construct the request signature for this request, we take the query string
of this `GET` request:

    api_key=754a28309b20012f479b109add670a2c&endpoint=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.change.org%2Fv1%2Fpetitions%2F48503&petition_id=4832&timestamp=2012-04-18T21%3A02-07%3A00

Then the secret token, in this case `003af2309b1f012f479b109add670a2c` is
appended to the end of the string

    api_key=754a28309b20012f479b109add670a2c&endpoint=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.change.org%2Fv1%2Fpetitions%2F48503&petition_id=4832&timestamp=2012-04-18T21%3A02-07%3A00003af2309b1f012f479b109add670a2c

And the final request signature would be the 256-bit SHA-2 digest of the string
above:

    ac0889ce480e30151c08613093868d22e30d4fcb60cc42089313e9d6ccc5bcbc

The signature is then appended as another parameter, `rsig`, to the clear-text
query string. So the full request and return value would be

    GET https://api.change.org/v1/petitions/4832?api_key=754a28309b20012f479b109add670a2c&endpoint=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.change.org%2Fv1%2Fpetitions%2F48503&petition_id=4832&timestamp=2012-04-18T21%3A02-07%3A00&rsig=ac0889ce480e30151c08613093868d22e30d4fcb60cc42089313e9d6ccc5bcbc
    => {    
            "title": "Ask Starfleet to Add a Purple Uniform",
            "url": "http://www.change.org/petitions/ask-starfleet-to-add-a-purple-uniform",
            "overview": "The current three colors are getting old. Additional colors, such as purple, would be a welcome change!",
            [...]
        }
